{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\info
{\title Johanna Diehl}
{\author HP36}}\vieww17020\viewh20900\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li180\sl300\pardirnatural

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf2 \
Markus Oberndorfer \
FOUKAULD \
Das Verschwinden / La Disparition / Disappearance ...\
\

\fs20 Texte von Inge Marszolek, Wolf Langewitz, Markus Oberndorfer \
in Deutsch Englisch Franz\'f6sisch\
Gestaltung: Markus Oberndorfer + friends\
Typografie: Jack Usine, Paul Busk\
2012, Fotohof edition, Hardcover, Leinen\
28,5 x 22,5 cm, 106 Seiten // Mit Ausklapper\
57 Farbabbildungen, Edition: 750 // \'80 39\
ISBN 978-3-902675-71-2\

\fs22 \
\
Markus Oberndorfers Aufnahmen von Bunkeranlagen des NS-Regimes an den Str\'e4nden des Atlantikwalls im franz\'f6sischen Abschnitt rund um Cap Ferret sind beredte Zeugen vom Verschwinden und von der Ver\'e4nderung  und der Aneignung der mahnenden Relikte des 2.Weltkrieges.\
Die \'fcber einen Zeitraum von mehreren Jahren (2005-2010)  entstandenen Farbfotografien werden durch ihre Reduziertheit in Farbigkeit und Kontrast auch zur Metapher f\'fcr die Verg\'e4nglichkeit des analogen Fotomaterials. Die Bunker selbst schreiben sich unscheinbar in die vom rauen Klima gezeichnete Landschaft ein. Heute dienen sie vor allem Surfern und Touristen als  Aussichtsplateaus oder auch als ideale Wandfl\'e4chen f\'fcr Grafittikunst. \'84Foukauld-La Disparation\'93, so der Titel des Buches wie des gesamten Projektes, versteht sich gleicherma\'dfen als k\'fcnstlerische und als wissenschaftliche Arbeit. Es kann durchaus auch als Referenz auf den gro\'dfen franz\'f6sischen Philosophen Michel Foucault mit seinen \'dcberlegungen zu Geschichte und Ged\'e4chtnis  gesehen werden, \
Auch Oberndorfer h\'e4lt \'84 die Irritation fest - die Irritation, die zum Nachdenken f\'fchrt. Oder mit Foucault: \'84Heterotopien\'93 verweisen auf die Widerlager der Gesellschaft. Die Bunkerfotografien von Markus Oberndorfer enthalten in der Dokumentation des Verschwindens wie in der Aneignung die Botschaft, dass Kriege \'92man-made-disasters\'92 sind, in denen von Menschen gebaute Bunker keinen Schutz bieten\'93. ( Inge Marszolek ) \

\i \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\i0 \cf0 Markus Oberndorfer,* 1980 in Ohlsdorf, Ober\'f6sterreich. \
Lebt und arbeitet in Wien. 
\i \

\i0 \page \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \
Markus Oberndorfer \
FOUKAULD \
Das Verschwinden / La Disparition / Disappearance ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\fs20 \cf0 Texts by Inge Marszolek, Wolf Langewitz, Markus Oberndorfer \
in German English French\
Graphic Design: Markus Oberndorfer + friends\
Typography: Jack Usine, Paul Busk\
2012, Fotohof edition, Hardcover, Linen\
28,5 x 22,5 cm, 106 Pages // With Fold-Out\
57 color plates // Edition: 750 // \'80 39\
ISBN 978-3-902675-71-2\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\fs22 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\pardirnatural
\cf2 Markus Oberndorfer\'92s photographs of bunker installations built by the Nazi regime along the beaches of the Atlantic Wall in the French section around Cap Ferret are eloquent witnesses of the disappearance, alteration and appropriation of cautionary relicts from the Second World War.\
The colour photographs were taken over a period of several years (2005-2010), and with their pared-down colours and contrasts they have also become metaphors for the transience of analogue photographic material. The bunkers themselves meld inconspicuously into the landscape marked by the harsh climate. Today they serve mainly as viewing platforms for surfers and tourists or as ideal surfaces for graffiti. Foukauld \'96 La Disparition is the title of both the book and the project as a whole, which is an artistic as much as a scientific work. It can certainly be interpreted as a reference to the great French philosopher Michel Foucault and his thoughts on history and memory.\
\
Oberndorfer too is captivated by \'93the irritation \'96 the irritation that induces reflection\'94. Or, along with Foucault: \'93Heterotopias\'94 refer to society\'92s mainstays. In documenting both disappearance and appropriation Markus Oberndorfer\'92s bunker photographs convey the message that wars are man-made disasters in which man-made bunkers provide no protection. (Inge Marszolek) \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\fs22 \cf0 Markus Oberndorfer,* 1980 in Ohlsdorf, Upper-Austria. \
Lives and works in Vienna.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \
\page \
\
Markus Oberndorfer \
FOUKAULD \
Das Verschwinden / La Disparition / Disappearance ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\fs20 \cf0 Textes de Inge Marszolek, Wolf Langewitz, Markus Oberndorfer \
en Allemand Anglais Fran\'e7ais\
Graphisme: Markus Oberndorfer + friends\
Typographie: Jack Usine, Paul Busk\
2012, Fotohof edition, Hardcover, Lin, \
28,5 x 22,5 cm, 106 Pages // Avec rabat\
57 illustrations en couleur // Edition: 750 // \'80 39\
ISBN 978-3-902675-71-2\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\pardirnatural
\cf2 \
Les photographies de Markus Oberndorfer qui mettent en sc\'e8ne les bunkers construits par le r\'e9gime nazi sur les plages du Mur de l'Atlantique autour du Cap Ferret, en France, sont des t\'e9moins \'e9loquents de la disparition, de la modification et de l'appropriation de vestiges de la Seconde Guerre mondiale.\
Ces photographies en couleur ont \'e9t\'e9 r\'e9alis\'e9es sur une p\'e9riode de plusieurs ann\'e9es (2005-2010), et leurs couleurs \'e9pur\'e9es, leurs contrastes, sont \'e9galement devenus des m\'e9taphores du caract\'e8re \'e9ph\'e9m\'e8re du mat\'e9riel photographique argentique. Les bunkers s\'91inscrivent discr\'e8tement dans le paysage marqu\'e9 par la rigueur du climat. Aujourd'hui, ils servent principalement aux surfeurs et aux touristes, qui utilisent ces bunkers comme des plateformes d'observation ou des surfaces id\'e9ales pour y r\'e9aliser des graffitis. \'93Foukauld - La Disparition\'93, est \'e0 la fois le titre du livre et du projet, qui constitue un travail artistique autant que scientifique. Il peut certainement \'eatre interpr\'e9t\'e9 comme une r\'e9f\'e9rence au grand philosophe fran\'e7ais Michel Foucault et ses r\'e9flexions sur l'histoire et la m\'e9moire.\
\
Oberndorfer est \'e9galement captiv\'e9 par \'ab l'irritation - une irritation qui provoque la r\'e9flexion\'a0\'bb. Ou, avec Foucault: Les \'ab H\'e9t\'e9rotopies \'bb font r\'e9f\'e9rence \'e0 des piliers de la soci\'e9t\'e9. En documentant la fois la disparition et l'appropriation, les photographies de bunkers de Markus Oberndorfer transmettent le message que les guerres sont des catastrophes d'origine humaine dans lesquelles les bunkers n\'92offrent aucune protection \'e0 ceux qui les ont construits. (Inge Marszolek)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Markus Oberndorfer,* 1980 in Ohlsdorf, Haute-Autriche. \
Vit et travaille \'e0 Vienne.\
}